# Meteorology

UCF Meteorology Pitch

### Description of Bloomberg weaather data

The last four characters in the ticker is the weather location identifier. In some cases this four character code is the ICAO code for that particular location. The tail brings in a particular type of weather data such as ACTU for Actual. Please see OTHER WEATHER DATA section for all your tail options. The last 6 digits listed behind the Weather Description name as seen in DES is the Universal WMO code for that location. NOTE: All US locations use Fahrenheit; All Non-US locations use Celsius; ACTU represents actual observed weather conditions; NORMAL & MEDIAN contain 3 types (30 YEAR, 10 YEAR, 5 YEAR) These are calculated using a 30, 10 & 5 year rolling averages of daily records with updates issued in mid-March of every year; Normalized Weather data is update approximately mid-March with either a 30, 10 or 5 year rolling average. For example, March 15, 2007 will include the 5 Year Average of 2002-2006 and the 10 Year Average will include 1997-2006. PRECIPITATION includes rainfall and the liquid equivalent of snow and sleet (MEASUREMENT: Integer in 100th millimeters (Non-US) & Integer in 100th inches (US)/0 used for TRACE AMOUNTS; -1 used for NO PRECIPITATION); WIND SPEED is the average sustained winds which does not include wind gust; FORECAST is a 15 DAY forecast reported in 24 hour increments; 48 HOUR FORECASTs are as follows: MORNING refers to 6am-11:59am local time; AFTERNOON refers to 12pm-5:59pm local time; EVENING refers to 6pm-11:59pm local time. OVERNIGHT refers to 12am-5:59am (next day) local time; GDD is Growing Degree Day which provides an indication of agriculture growth and development relating to average temperatures (Calculation Method: GDD = AVG - X       X = 10 Degrees Celsius / 50 Degrees Fahrenheit if(GDD < 0) GDD = 0) X represents the standard baseline but there are also crop-specific value that can be used as the baseline; HDD is Heating Degree Day which provides an index of energy requirements to heat (Calculation Method: HDD = Y - AVG); CDD is Cooling Degree Day which provides an index of energy requirements to cool (Calculation Method: CDD = AVG - Y); Y = 18 Degrees Celsius / 65 Degrees Fahrenheit; AVG = Mean; if (HDD<0) then HDD = 0; if (CDD<0) then CDD = 0; To convert F to C (5/9*Temperature in Fahrenheit)-32; To convert C to F (9/5*Temperature in Celsius)+32.
